All right, let's talk about managing
focus in interactive components,
coz that's a lot of what we're building
in these client-rendered applications.
And a lot of these need attention for
the keyboard.
It's so cool when there is support for
So try ditching your mouse for a day
each week as a regular workflow step.
And see if you can highlight
accessibility problems.
I bet you'll find all kinds of issues just
by having the team regularly ditch your
mouse for a week.
Have no mouse Mondays or something.
Could be very effective.
So some common patterns to look out for.
We talked about some of these in
the HTML context of things, but
in terms of focus management,
modals and view changes are a big one.
When those layers open,
we have to move focus into them and
put it back when they close.
We also have to prevent interaction in
the background using things like focus
scopes and focus trapping,
that we use very intentionally and
not by accident,
tab switchers and date pickers.
We talked a little bit about roving tab
index, that's when you manage tab index so
that only one element in
a group is flexible at a time.
And you use scripting to move it around.
I have a link in here for that.
We covered it in the web app
workshop a little bit more.
But those are common patterns, and
sometimes those, when you do create that
one focusable control with roving tab
index, that's when the arrow keys come in.
And we saw how to target the arrow keys
with the event object in our events.
When you're adding and deleting items,
that's one, and we saw a widget that,
I think multiple widgets today,
that when the node goes away,
because that state condition isn't
met in JSX anymore and react.
If you're focused on that element,
it just kind of goes poof.
When you delete an item,
it's basically doing the same thing, so
we have to manage focus to
send it back somewhere.
I've got a question.
>> What is focus trapping?
>> Focus trapping,
let me think of the best example to show.
Maybe the one from the other workshop.
Yeah.
I didn't think about that.
Let's look at our source slides,
look very familiar, don't they?
Let's go to focus management,
keyboard trapping.
So I have an example here in,
using the focus scope I mentioned,
it's from a library called React ARIA.
So we'll see a very
stripped down example here.
So I've got, and I'll actually,
let's open this a little bit bigger.
So on StackBlitz,
I've got this focus scope.
So on this page, it has a button.
And when I click that button,
it shows and hides, or
at least shows, another set of components.
So it's pretty basic.
This could be an immortal.
Maybe these new elements would
be on top of everything, and
there would be a grayed-out background.
But when I tab in here,
my focus cycle is between.
So I'm being trapped.
And we don't wanna do this by accident,
[LAUGH] Where I've seen that happen is,
I mean, maybe even here on StackBlitz.
If I try to tab, well, first of all,
I'm trapped because the focus scope
is that good at what it does.
I can't even get out.
[LAUGH] But if I tab through StackBlitz,
let's see what happens when I
get to the text editor portion.
This is a focus trap right here.
This is an unintentional focus trap.
So, I finally got out.
Maybe it wasn't quite a focus trap,
it was close.
Let's see.
Here we go.
Here's a focus strap.
I'm hitting tab.
See how it just keeps moving the content?
I can't get out of it.
I can't get past it.
So there's intentional and unintentional.
The unintentional ones are the ones
that are WCAG violations,
because you can't do anything.
So what they need to do for
StackBlitz, or CodePen, or
anything like that is give me
an edit mode and a button.
Let me tab onto that button,
go into edit mode,
then do this, hit Escape or
something to get back out.
Whereas over here, this example,
I can skip by the stuff when it's
not active, say it's in a modal, and
I can trap it at the right time,
and then turn it off when I'm done.
So that's kind of how we do it on purpose.
[LAUGH] Is put it in something.
So in my react here,
I have this only happening when
the is open state variable is truthy.
And so, yeah, it's a great question.
>> Another question.
How would you manage focus in and
out of an iframe?
>> I know, iframes are my nemesis.
>> [LAUGH]
>> They are hard.
So iframes, when you have third party
content that loads into an iframe,
you are responsible for it.
Even though you can't
do anything about it.
So, the accessibility issues that
get iframed in, yeah, guess who's,
if you get sued for
something, that's in scope.
So, that's troubling.
But, I think you should be able to just
seamlessly tab into the iframe, I believe.
Honestly, I try to do everything I can
to avoid iframes, [LAUGH] Cuz they're
very hard, but I think, yeah, it's part
of the overall what gets rendered.
So think about the user experience
is that it's part of the page,
it's part of what they're gonna tap into.
It's kind of they don't care
if it's in an iframe or not.
It's on the page and if I can get into it,
yeah, I think what I would do kind of,
since I'm just sort of
spitballing here about iframes,
the steps I would take to test that,
I would with anything.
Make a little sandbox,
on StackBlitz or CodePen or whatever,
put an iframe in it with some
focusable elements, and go test it.
That's always the way
to get a true answer,
is to go test it yourself, and
so that's what I would do.
I'm not gonna do it right the second, but
that's how you can answer that question
whenever you have something like that.
It's like put it in a plain HTML
page with no other dependencies,
no other styles to get in the way.
And then just see what it does.
Cool.
So when to show a focus outline,
I have an example here.
Because I have had issues opened on
component libraries of mouse users
who are very mad about focus styles.
And this could be when you're talking
about convincing leadership and
stakeholders, and they're like,
why is this blue outline on everything?
You're like, well,
that's the keyboard focus.
Yeah, people don't love that.
[LAUGH] It's really hard
to make everyone happy.
So fortunately, we have a really great
pseudo class now called Focus Visible.
And it will discern, it uses heuristics
to discern between keyboard focus and
mouse focus, which when you click
it does actually focus things.
So like I clicked on this div, it has
a tab index of negative 1 on it, and
a focus style.
When I click it,
either by clicking on a button and
sending focus to it with the mouse,
or if I click directly on,
say this is a wrapper element,
my client routing target.
I'm sending focus to the heading or
to a wrapper element.
It has tab index of -1 on it.
And I saw the sun and I have these
issues getting filed that like,
why is this focus style showing?
Well, it's because your style
is matching on CSS focus.
Now, these days we have a more modern
pseudo class we can use called
Focus Visible.
When I click, it will not show that
outline on tab index of negative 1.
When I use the keyboard,
it will, that's what we want.
We want it to work for keyboards.
And mouse users, probably not.
I mean, some, the kind of the caveat
here is for voice navigation,
it acts like mouse clicking, but
users might still want a focus style.
So, kind of what I say to that is,
if you can make it configurable,
if you're a big web app and
you have accessibility settings,
let users tell you that they really
want focus outlines all the time.
That would be the coolest thing
ever if you really needed it.
And you're using voice navigation.
But otherwise,
focus visible is pretty great.
And it could allow you to style
with more specific pseudo-classes.
And they're really synonymous,
it's :focus versus :focus-visible.
So it's really easy to use kinda
in place of regular focus styles.
And I have a link to the MDM docs
on it if you wanna read about it.
But really the difference here
is what happens when you click
versus use the keyboard.
There's a slight difference that when
you're really being selective with how you
style for these different inputs.
It can save you.
You can keep your stakeholders happy and
make it accessible.
There's also a JavaScript library called,
What Input, that does something similar,
but it's nice to use the standard CSS,
now that it's there.
Any questions about focus visible?
It's awesome.
I love it.
Gets us out of what I used
to call button focus hell.
That was when I was working
on a component library and
fielding the why is this having this
blue outline questions on Github.
It was not my favorite time.
[LAUGH]